# generalized-chopsticks-sequence
The official published documentation on the Generalized Chopsticks (GC) Sequence is located at [The On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences](http://oeis.org/A302403).

## Getting Started on Windows
Assuming you have [git](https://git-scm.com/download/) installed on your machine:
```powershell
cd "C:\Projects"
git clone https://github.com/schwamic001/generalized-chopsticks-sequence.git
cd "C:\Projects\generalized-chopsticks-sequence"
```

Otherwise, you may download the repository from GitHub directly as a zip folder.

## Definitions
Chopsticks: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chopsticks_(hand_game)

* Single-Handed Chopsticks: A variant of the game where each player has a single hand.  This makes the game deterministic.

* *n* = Number of fingers on a hand (*n >= 2*). In a conventional one-handed game, *n = 5*.

* *i* = Number of fingers up at the start of the game (*0 < i < n*). In a conventional game, *i = 1*.

* Michael/AJ: The two players of a game of Single-Handed Chopsticks. Michael always plays first.

* GC Number: A number *n* is part of the GC sequence if all *i* from 1 to *n-1* result in the same winner in a game of Single-Handed Chopsticks.

* Consistency: A number *n* is consistent if it meets these two criteria:
    1. *n* is a GC number
    1. The game always ends on the same turn for any *i* from 1 to *n-1*

## Files

### generalized_chopsticks_sequence.R
Generates all GC numbers through 1,000 and prints the results to console. Produced by Michael Schwalen, AJ Robinson, and Angela Lin.

### GC Numbers.xlsx
Excel workbook that generates all GC numbers through 100 and shares a few insights. Produced by Michael Schwalen and AJ Robinson.

### generate_sequence.py
Generates GC numbers, using the last calculated number as a starting point. The GC numbers generated by this script are saved in ```gcs.txt```. The highest processed number is stored in ```max_calc.txt```. This is stored in a separate file since the last number processed may not have been part of the GC sequence, thus it would not be saved in ```gcs.txt```.

To add to the GC sequence, the generate_sequence.py script can be used in the following way (you must have python installed):
```powershell
# automatically check the next 5,000 integers, then stop
.\generate_sequence.py

# generate GC numbers until we reach 25000
# if we've already processed this far, the script will do nothing and exit
.\generate_sequence.py --end 25000
```

### generate_polar.py
Generates a polar graph of the GC sequence numbers in ```gcs.txt```. Stores the result in ```img/polar/```.

```powershell
# install plotting library
pip install matplotlib

# generate graph using all the discovered GC numbers
.\generate_polar.py

# generate graph using all the discovered GC numbers up to a specified point
.\generate_polar.py --end 10000
```

## Other Notes
Feel free to use the code, Excel document, and GC sequence however you see fit. Enjoy!
